Further caching updates (#6313)
circleci/circleci-docs: jekyll/_cci2/caching-strategy.md

## Partial dependency caching strategies
{: #partial-dependency-caching-strategies }

Some dependency managers do not properly handle installing on top of partially restored dependency trees.

{% raw %}

```yaml
steps:
  - restore_cache:
      keys:
        - gem-cache-{{ arch }}-{{ .Branch }}-{{ checksum "Gemfile.lock" }}
        - gem-cache-{{ arch }}-{{ .Branch }}
        - gem-cache
```
{% endraw %}

In the above example, if a dependency tree is partially restored by the second or third cache keys, some dependency managers will incorrectly install on top of the outdated dependency tree.

Instead of a cascading fallback, a more stable option is a single version-prefixed cache key:

{% raw %}

```yaml
steps:
  - restore_cache:
      keys:
        - v1-gem-cache-{{ arch }}-{{ .Branch }}-{{ checksum "Gemfile.lock" }}
```

{% endraw %}

Since caches are immutable, this strategy allows you to regenerate all of your caches by incrementing the version. This is useful in the following scenarios:

- When you change the version of a dependency manager like `npm`.
- When you change the version of a language like Ruby.
- When you add or remove dependencies from your project.

> The stability of partial dependency caching is dependent on your dependency manager. Below is a list of common dependency managers, recommended partial caching strategies, and associated justifications.

Reviewer: "...dependency caching is dependent on your dependency manager." -- that's a lot of versions of "dependent" in one sentence. Maybe change it to something like "...dependency caching is reliant on your dependency manager.

Author: ewww yeah thanks for catching this!

---
layout: classic-docs
title: "Caching strategies"
description: "This document is a guide to the various caching strategies available for managing dependency caches in CircleCI."
categories: [optimization]
order: 50
version:
- Cloud
- Server v3.x
- Server v2.x
---

Caching is one of the most effective ways to make jobs faster on CircleCI. By reusing the data from previous jobs, you also reduce the cost of fetch operations. Caching is project-specific, and there are a number of strategies to help optimize caches for effectiveness and storage optimization.

* TOC
{:toc}

## Cache optimization
{: #cache-optimization }

> When setting up caches for your projects, the goal would be a 10x - 20x ROI (return on investment). This means you should be aiming for a situation where the amount of cache restored should be 10x - 20x the cache saved. The following tips can help you achieve this.

Author: ```suggestion
When setting up caches for your projects, the goal is a 10x - 20x ROI (return on investment). This means you are aiming for a situation where the amount of cache restored is 10x - 20x the cache saved. The following tips can help you achieve this.
```

## Partial dependency caching strategies
{: #partial-dependency-caching-strategies }

Some dependency managers do not properly handle installing on top of partially restored dependency trees.

{% raw %}

```yaml
steps:
  - restore_cache:
      keys:
        - gem-cache-{{ arch }}-{{ .Branch }}-{{ checksum "Gemfile.lock" }}
        - gem-cache-{{ arch }}-{{ .Branch }}
        - gem-cache
```
{% endraw %}

In the above example, if a dependency tree is partially restored by the second or third cache keys, some dependency managers will incorrectly install on top of the outdated dependency tree.

Instead of a cascading fallback, a more stable option is a single version-prefixed cache key:

{% raw %}

```yaml
steps:
  - restore_cache:
      keys:
        - v1-gem-cache-{{ arch }}-{{ .Branch }}-{{ checksum "Gemfile.lock" }}
```

{% endraw %}

Since caches are immutable, this strategy allows you to regenerate all of your caches by incrementing the version. This is useful in the following scenarios:

- When you change the version of a dependency manager like `npm`.
- When you change the version of a language like Ruby.
- When you add or remove dependencies from your project.

> The stability of partial dependency caching is dependent on your dependency manager. Below is a list of common dependency managers, recommended partial caching strategies, and associated justifications.

Author: ```suggestion
The stability of partial dependency caching relies on your dependency manager. Below is a list of common dependency managers, recommended partial caching strategies, and associated justifications.
```

{:toc}

## Cache optimization
{: #cache-optimization }

When setting up caches for your projects, the goal would be a 10x - 20x ROI (return on investment). This means you should be aiming for a situation where the amount of cache restored should be 10x - 20x the cache saved. The following tips can help you achieve this.

### Avoid strict cache keys
{: #avoid-strict-cache-keys }

Using cache keys that are too strict can mean that you will only get a minimal number of cache hits for a workflow. For example, if you used the key `CIRCLE_SHA1` (SHA of the last commit of the current pipeline) this would only get matched once for a workflow. Consider using cache keys that are less strict to ensure more cache hits.

### Avoid unnecessary workflow reruns
{: #avoid-unnecessary-workflow-reruns }

> If your project has "flaky tests" workflows might be rerun unnecessarily. This will both use up your credits and increase your storage usage. To avoid this situation, address flaky tests. For help with identifying them, see [Test Insights]({{ site.baseurl }}/2.0/insights-tests/#flaky-tests)). You can also consider configuring your projects to only rerun failed jobs rather than entire workflows. To achieve this you can use the `when` step. For further information see the [Configuration Reference]({{ site.baseurl }}/2.0/configuration-reference/#the-when-attribute).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your project has "flaky tests," workflows might be rerun unnecessarily. This will both use up your credits and increase your storage usage. To avoid this situation, address flaky tests. For help with identifying them, see [Test Insights]({{ site.baseurl }}/2.0/insights-tests/#flaky-tests)). You can also consider configuring your projects to only rerun failed jobs rather than entire workflows. To achieve this you can use the `when` step. For further information see the [Configuration Reference]({{ site.baseurl }}/2.0/configuration-reference/#the-when-attribute).
```

### Split cache keys by directory
{: #split-cache-keys-by-directory }

> Having multiple directories under a single cache key increases the chances of there being a change to the cache. In the example below, there may be changes in the first 2 directories but no changes in the `a` or `b` directory. Saving all four directories under one cache key increases the potential storage usage. The cache restore step will also take longer than needed as all four sets of files will be restored.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Having multiple directories under a single cache key increases the chances of there being a change to the cache. In the example below, there may be changes in the first two directories but no changes in the `a` or `b` directory. Saving all four directories under one cache key increases the potential storage usage. The cache restore step will also take longer than needed as all four sets of files will be restored.
```
